README.rst, before:

`dirty_cat`
===========


**dirty_cat has migrated** to `skrub <https://github.com/skrub-data/skrub>`__ .
**This repository will no longer be maintained.**

**Use skrub**, it has all the features of dirty-cat and more.

.. image:: https://dirty-cat.github.io/stable/_static/dirty_cat.svg
   :align: center
   :alt: dirty_cat logo


|py_ver| |pypi_var| |pypi_dl| |codecov| |circleci| |black|

.. |py_ver| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/dirty_cat
.. |pypi_var| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/dirty_cat?color=informational
.. |pypi_dl| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/dirty_cat
.. |codecov| image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/dirty-cat/dirty_cat/main
.. |circleci| image:: https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/dirty-cat/dirty_cat/main?label=CircleCI
.. |black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg

`dirty_cat <https://dirty-cat.github.io/>`_ is a Python library
that facilitates machine-learning on dirty categorical variables.

For a detailed description of the problem of encoding dirty categorical data, see
`Similarity encoding for learning with dirty categorical variables <https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01806175>`_ [1]_
and `Encoding high-cardinality string categorical variables <https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02171256v4>`_ [2]_.


What can `dirty_cat` do?
------------------------

`dirty_cat` provides tools (``TableVectorizer``, ``fuzzy_join``...) and
encoders (``GapEncoder``, ``MinHashEncoder``...) for **morphological similarities**,
for which we usually identify three common cases: **similarities, typos and variations**

`The first example notebook <https://dirty-cat.github.io/stable/auto_examples/01_dirty_categories.html>`_
goes in-depth on how to identify and deal with dirty data using the `dirty_cat` library.

What `dirty_cat` does not
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Semantic similarities <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_similarity>`_
are currently not supported.
For example, the similarity between *car* and *automobile* is outside the reach
of the methods implemented here.

This kind of problem is tackled by
`Natural Language Processing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_language_processing>`_
methods.

`dirty_cat` can still help with handling typos and variations in this kind of setting.

Installation
------------

dirty_cat can be easily installed via `pip`::

    pip install dirty_cat

Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dependencies and minimal versions are listed in the `setup <https://github.com/dirty-cat/dirty_cat/blob/main/setup.cfg#L26>`_ file.

Related projects
----------------

Are listed on the `dirty_cat's website <https://dirty-cat.github.io/stable/#related-projects>`_

Contributing
------------

If you want to encourage development of `dirty_cat`,
the best thing to do is to *spread the word*!

If you encounter an issue while using `dirty_cat`, please
`open an issue <https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/creating-an-issue>`_ and/or
`submit a pull request <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request>`_.
Don't hesitate, you're helping to make this project better for everyone!

Additional resources
--------------------

* `Introductory video (YouTube) <https://youtu.be/_GNaaeEI2tg>`_
* `Overview poster for EuroSciPy 2022 (Google Drive) <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TtmJ3VjASy6rGlKe0txKacM-DdvJdIvB/view?usp=sharing>`_

References
----------

.. [1] Patricio Cerda, Gaël Varoquaux, Balázs Kégl. Similarity encoding for learning with dirty categorical variables. 2018. Machine Learning journal, Springer.
.. [2] Patricio Cerda, Gaël Varoquaux. Encoding high-cardinality string categorical variables. 2020. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge & Data Engineering.

Commit message:

A README that pushes more heavily to skrub

README.rst, after:

`dirty_cat`
===========


**dirty_cat has migrated** to `skrub <https://github.com/skrub-data/skrub>`__ .
**This repository will no longer be maintained.**

**Use skrub**, it has all the features of dirty-cat and more.

.. image:: https://dirty-cat.github.io/stable/_static/dirty_cat.svg
   :align: center
   :alt: dirty_cat logo

|

`dirty_cat <https://dirty-cat.github.io/>`_ was a Python library
to facilitate machine-learning on dirty categorical variables.

Its functionalities are merged in the `skrub <https://skrub-data.org>`_

|

For a detailed description of the problem of encoding dirty categorical data, see
`Similarity encoding for learning with dirty categorical variables <https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01806175>`_ [1]_
and `Encoding high-cardinality string categorical variables <https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02171256v4>`_ [2]_.


What can `dirty_cat` do?
------------------------

`dirty_cat` provides tools (``TableVectorizer``, ``fuzzy_join``...) and
encoders (``GapEncoder``, ``MinHashEncoder``...) for **morphological similarities**,
for which we usually identify three common cases: **similarities, typos and variations**

`The first example notebook <https://dirty-cat.github.io/stable/auto_examples/01_dirty_categories.html>`_
goes in-depth on how to identify and deal with dirty data using the `dirty_cat` library.

What `dirty_cat` does not
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Semantic similarities <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_similarity>`_
are currently not supported.
For example, the similarity between *car* and *automobile* is outside the reach
of the methods implemented here.

This kind of problem is tackled by
`Natural Language Processing <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_language_processing>`_
methods.

`dirty_cat` can still help with handling typos and variations in this kind of setting.

Installation
------------

Please do not use dirty-cat anymore, but rather skrub, which has the same
features, replaces dirty-cat and can be easily installed via `pip`::

    pip install skrub

Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dependencies and minimal versions are listed in the `setup <https://github.com/dirty-cat/dirty_cat/blob/main/setup.cfg#L26>`_ file.

Related projects
----------------

`skrub <https://skrub-data.org>`_

Contributing
------------

If you want to encourage development of these functionality, the best
thing to do is to *spread the word* around `skrub <https://skrub-data.org>`_

And please contribute to `skrub <https://github.com/skrub-data/skrub>`_

Additional resources
--------------------

* `Introductory video (YouTube) <https://youtu.be/_GNaaeEI2tg>`_
* `Overview poster for EuroSciPy 2022 (Google Drive) <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TtmJ3VjASy6rGlKe0txKacM-DdvJdIvB/view?usp=sharing>`_

References
----------

.. [1] Patricio Cerda, Gaël Varoquaux, Balázs Kégl. Similarity encoding for learning with dirty categorical variables. 2018. Machine Learning journal, Springer.
.. [2] Patricio Cerda, Gaël Varoquaux. Encoding high-cardinality string categorical variables. 2020. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge & Data Engineering.
